1. Take your seat for a Titanic experience

Immerse yourself in the story of the Titanic, the ship that was built in Belfast and, as the world knows, hit an iceberg. The tragedy is now commemorated with an impressive visitor center at the very place where the liner was crafted.

2. Excite your senses at St George’s Market

For an authentic taste of Belfast life, make your way to the Victorian St George’s Market. More than 150 traders set up stalls laden with everything from antiques to exotic meat. Visit on the weekend for free jazz.

3. Tour the murals by taxi

One of the best ways to see Belfast’s famous wall art is to sign up for a Black Taxi Tour. Knowledgeable drivers supply an informative history lesson, which reflects on both the city’s intrinsic traditions and tells the story of the Troubles.

4. Belfast – the music city

The musical walk of fame in Belfast is so long they needed a bus tour. Trace Van Morrison’s footsteps and visit the fantastic exhibition at the Oh Yeah Centre. Don’t miss out on free live traditional music in the evenings – just choose a pub.

5. Be wowed by the treasures in the Ulster Museum

Gleaming like a quirky work of modern art, the Ulster Museum’s forte is the history and prehistory of Ireland using exhibitions that trace the rise of Belfast’s crafts and trades. Admission is free.

6. Order a drink

Belfast has some great bars: the Victorian attired Crown Liquor Saloon, a stylish cocktail bar at The Merchant Hotel, and the historic Duke of York where Titanic builders constructed the bar in exchange for whiskey.

7. Admire the flora

The Palm House at the Belfast Botanic Gardens is an iconic city sight. Plant enthusiasts can explore the array of geraniums, fuchsias and begonias while many other visitors simply lounge in the gardens enjoying the views for free.

8. Belfast City Hall

Belfast gained city status in 1888 when Queen Victoria deemed it so. A new city hall was constructed to reflect this. Today it anchors Donegal Square with its awesome architecture and array of sculpture.

9. Bike around Belfast

The Belfast City Bike Tour takes you on a two-wheeled adventure through the city. Choose from the city tour, Titanic Bike n’ Boat or the Hilden Bike n’ Brew. Reviews of the tours are consistently excellent.

10. The Cathedral Quarter

One of four vibrant city quarters, this is named after St Anne’s Cathedral. Within its confines is a host of restaurants, pubs, great examples of architecture and live music venues. Not to mention the newest addition: the MAC.