1. Antibes is situated between Cannes and Nice and as well as being a beautiful little town to enjoy a spot of lunch it also holds such attractions as the Picasso museum and a stunning Old Town. The train from Nice to Cannes stops at Antibes regularly seven days a week.

2. Juan les Pins is a great destination for those who enjoy great beaches and some fab nightlife. There is also a jazz festival held in Juan in July although it is quiet in winter.

3. Whilst on the Riviera Monaco is a top destination to visit. Take a look at the Casino (which is normally surrounded by amazing cars) and have a night out celeb-spotting at the famous Jimmy’z nightclub.

4. St Paul de Vence is one of the oldest medieval towns on the French Riviera and is well worth a visit. It is also home to several art museums and galleries probably owing to the famous artists who have lived there such as Marc Chagall.

5. Eze village is another hilltop medieval village that is a must see. On the way to Monaco it offers sensational views of the sea and the surrounding areas. The medieval town of Eze remains very much intact and well inhabited and walking around the quaint stone streets is a lovely day out.

6. Villefranche is a pretty fishing village, with the deepest natural harbor of any Mediteranean port so you will often see large cruise liners docked there. Whilst in Villefranche you can make the most of the quiet beaches and lovely restaurants and cafes or take a short journey to the neighbouring millionaire’s hideaway of St Jean Cap Ferrat – a famous holiday destination for European artisocracy.

7. If you are in the Riviera during the winter time spend a day at Isola 2000 or Auron skiing or snowboarding. Both destinations are within an hour’s journey from Nice and the 750 bus goes directly from Gare Thiers to the skiing resort. If you’re not much of a skier why not just go along for the pretty views and the après-ski experience.

8. St Tropez might be renowned as the playground for the rich and famous but it is not as exclusive as it seems. From Quai Lunel at Nice you can go on a day excursion there by boat for a flying visit! If you’re staying longer, make the most of the lovely town, cafes and beaches where you can rent all manner of water sports equipment!

9. The town of Menton is great to visit in late February/early March during the Lemon Festival. Celebrations take place on three consecutive Sunday mornings where the town comes alive to see the sculptures and mosaics made entirely from citrus fruits!